[Music]
okay wakey-wakey bright cider we have a
long day ahead of us my name's flash and
I'm about to take you on a quick day
trip through the history of our planet
that's right
four and a half billion years compressed
down into just one 24-hour day here we
go at 12 a.m. midnight the young earth
collides with another planet called
Theia
when you look at that the moon is born
you might be wondering why this compass
is going berserk well in real time the
magnetic poles switch places
every 250,000 years yep North becomes
self and South as a new north
magnetically at least but right now on
this one day old planet
they're changing 12 times a second also
the continents move to about one inch
per year to form a supercontinent that
happens every four hundred million years
but today they're merging and breaking
up every two hours from 12:00 to 4:30
a.m. not much interesting happens just
the planet and atmosphere morphing and
the sound of our yawns at 5:30 a.m. we
see the first single-celled organism
starting their life in the ocean the
planet is filled with methane and these
little guys are feasting on it it's 8
a.m. instead of rush hour traffic
filling the streets we have the first
viruses emerging and no coffee yet not
even a single coffee tree around by 11
a.m.
photosynthesizing bacteria have managed
to take in enough Sun for the past six
hours also known as a billion years to
fill the atmosphere with a byproduct
they let out oxygen get ready this is
gonna kickstart the development of life
on this planet at 11:35 it starts to get
chilly a mere second later it's freezing
cold and we have the first snowball on
earth even the oceans turn to ice don't
worry everything will melt by lunchtime
at around 1 p.m. we have special cells
with internal organs coming to life but
they're taking their sweet time
three hours later though
to divide into three groups that will
eventually become fungi
that's mushrooms and stuff the lovely
plants that'll color this earth and of
course animals but not for a while let's
fast forward while these cells are
taking forever to go from simple to
complex and all that evolutionary jazz
at 7:20 p.m. we finally have something
familiar sponges took long enough at
7:45 we have another creature being born
is called a plaque azolla
you'll need a microscope to see it
because it's only one millimeter long
but keep an eye on him because he's the
last common ancestor of all animals
combined it's 7:55 and the earth freezes
over again
time for a two-minute ski sesh before
everything melts 8 p.m. and look in the
ocean we have the first comb jellies
appearing those beautiful transparent
creatures with rainbow reflections on
them they're supposedly the first
animals to appear finally things are
starting to move and around 8:30 we can
remove our Sun protecting gear because
now the ozone layer appears a little
late buddy it's already past sunset in
just two minutes
the ocean is filling with plants by 8:45
life is flourishing in the see we now
have jellyfish swimming around corals we
don't have full-on starfish yet to my
disappointment I've been waiting but hey
they're on their way at 8:52 we see
trails on the ocean floor that means
little creatures have begun to crawl 4
minutes later
animals are beginning to develop little
backbones not the regular kind you and I
have though the ancient incomplete ones
we don't see the first official backbone
until another 4 minutes seems pretty
quick but it took 15 million years it's
9:10 p.m.
moon is up the sea creatures are getting
a little stir-crazy so they decide to
explore the land 30 seconds later we
finally get some diversity different
animals and plants emerge but they're
spreading everywhere faster than the
speed of sound 941 and do you know
what's been missing dinosaurs no not yet
but they're coming just hang tight for
now it's the first insects land plants
and trees also shoot up from the ground
by 9:45 we have the first four-legged
animals appearing in shallow waters at
10:10 p.m. those four-legged creatures
known as tetrapods are splitting into
sirop suits and synapsids the sirop
seeds are the ones we've been waiting
for they'll soon become reptiles birds
and dinosaurs the synapsids are
important too though they're also like
reptiles but later evolved into mammals
like you and me in just two minutes
those mammals are taking over the land
the most famous one is called the
Dimetrodon it's a massive reptile with a
sail on its back its 1025 and another
species called therapsids appear while
our friend
what's a sail slowly fades away by 10:30
everything vanishes we can hardly see
any animals a massive extinction takes
place only 5% of the species survive I'm
not sure what caused it either a huge
asteroid or an enormous volcanic
eruption 10:34 and the moment is here
the dinosaurs are finally making an
appearance the first one was the Nyasa
source but we're not sure if he was the
real deal or a relative turning into a
dino just two minutes have passed and
Hey look at the ground
we have bird-like footprints are the
dinosaurs
turning into birds 10:45 marks another
mass extinction boy it's the second one
in an hour but thankfully our dinosaur
friends make it so they take the
opportunity to spread all around the
world oh oh we got to find someplace to
hide and
ask in five minutes the Tyrannosaurus
will appear and it'll start eating
everything in its path by 11 p.m. we
have the first birds appearing in Europe
whoa look at that thing it has the face
of a dinosaur and round wings he seems
to be around one foot long and get this
much later after we humans show up
scientists will find out that this guy
is connecting birds and dinosaurs
it's 1103 and we have the first kangaroo
ancestors these are the first animals
that carry their babies in a pouch they
mostly appeared in Southeast Asia but
since the continents are traveling at
supersonic speeds they get to North
America and Australia in less than half
an hour
a minute later plants are starting to
flower for the first time ever it's
11:15 and mammals are splitting into
four new groups one will become hoofed
mammals whales and bats
yes whales and giraffes share an
ancestor another will become monkeys
apes and their relatives then we have
elephants manatees in the life and the
fourth group will become ant eaters and
armadillos it's about time they showed
up the ants have been around for five
minutes and they're crawling all over us
by 1117 dinosaurs are reaching their
full size it's like Jurassic Park around
here look at the Argento soros this guy
was the largest animal that ever existed
he could get over 100 feet long that's
almost as much as three school buses
lined up and he was tall enough to peek
into a seventh floor window
if only they had seventh floor windows
back then it's 11 26 can you hear that
look up a giant asteroid coming right
our way it smashes into the earth and
dust flies everywhere a few seconds
later everything clears up but the
dinosaurs have disappeared only a few
mammals are around with the dinosaurs
gone these hairy Milk lovers take over
at 11:30 the primates separate into two
groups and one of those will become Apes
gorillas and sometime later humans 11:45
those hoofed animals I mentioned earlier
they split off into two groups one has
an even number of toes goats camels pigs
deer and the other has an odd number
like rhinos and tapers boy there's a
face only a mother could love
it's 11:50 8:00 p.m. and still no signs
of people but the chimpanzees and
bonobos suddenly appear 15 seconds later
the hominid species begin to walk on two
legs just like we did when we were
babies it's 11:59 and 23 seconds and we
finally have full-blown humans over in
Africa a second later they start
migrating all over the world they don't
have a language and they can't use our
create tools that happens at 11:59 and
50s to seconds before the day ends and
100,000 years ago so out of an entire 24
hour day our species only showed up
right at the last minute hey I like to
think we were fashionably late Plus
didn't take us long to become top of the
food chain now did it
wait is that a bear over there never
mind
gotta go if you learned something new
today then give the video a like and
share it with a friend and here are some
other cool videos I think you'll enjoy
just click to the left or right and
remember stay on the bright side of life